We will consider two questions.
What is the link between peace and courage,
and how can we help others to take courage?
Let's begin with reading John 16 verse 33.
On the evening before his death,
Jesus told his apostles, John 16, 33,
I have said these things to you so that by means of me
you may have peace.
In the world you will have tribulation,
but take courage.
I have conquered the world.
The key words are peace and courage.
Now, the watchtower from which our commons are taken
uses the same verse in connection with the ransom arrangement.
The article states,
the ransom is an expression of courage.
Indeed, we can say that courage is connected to the ransom in two ways.
For Jesus, paying the ransom required courage.
For us, receiving the ransom gives us courage.
Now, before we will consider the expression take courage,
let's first look at the word peace.
What is the peace that we receive by means of Jesus?
Well, it's the inner calmness, the tranquility that we feel
when we perceive that we are approved and loved by Jehovah and by Jesus.
And what is the reason why we have such inner peace?
It is because of the ransom arrangement.
The ransom makes it possible for us to be reconciled to God,
to be brought back in a relationship with Jehovah.
Now, what results from having peace?
Well, look at John 14 verse 27.
Earlier that same evening, Jesus told His apostles,
I leave you peace, I give you my peace,
do not let your heart be troubled,
nor let them shrink out of fear.
So the peace of God that we receive by means of Jesus
prevents our heart from shrinking out of fear.
In other words, having peace will give us courage.
Now, to illustrate the link between peace and courage,
think of a flower.
Let's say a tulip.
A tulip has a bulb and a flower.
Let's compare the bulb with peace and the flower with courage.
Now, just as a tulip grows out of a bulb
that a gardener placed in the soil,
so courage grows out of inner peace
that Jehovah put in our heart.
Without a bulb, there is no flower.
Without inner peace, there is no godly courage.
So what do we need to do in order to obtain peace and courage?
Well, there is a saying that points in the right direction.
The saying is, a Bible that is falling apart
usually belongs to a person who is not.
And indeed, we need to use the Bible often.
We need to study it.
We need to meditate upon it.
The more we do so, the more courageous we will be.
Now, let's return to John 16 for 33
and consider the two words of our daily text.
Take courage.
What is the meaning?
Well, take courage has the same meaning as take heart.
In fact, the word heart and the word courage
come from the same Latin word core.
So take courage means be and courage because of something.
Now, as you can see on the monitor,
the Bible records five instances
where Jesus used the expression take courage.
And speaking to a paralyzed man,
Jesus said, take courage.
And speaking to a woman who surfed from a flow of blood,
And speaking to the frightened apostles
who saw him walking on the sea,
Jesus said, take courage.
And speaking to his apostles during the evening before his death,
In appearing to the apostle Paul,
Jesus said, take courage.
Now, when we take a closer look at these five instances,
we will know that Jesus followed the pattern
whenever he used that expression.
Each time, after saying, take courage,
what did Jesus do?
He added a reason.
Jesus did not only give a comment,
but also a reason that helped his listeners to understand
why they could be encouraged.
For example, look at Acts 23-11,
where Jesus spoke to Paul.
Now, at the end of the first sentence,
we see the words take courage.
Then what is the next word that Jesus said?
Four, meaning four, the reason that,
or because, so the word four,
introduces the reason why Paul could take courage.
Thus we could read that part of the verse as follows.
Take courage. Why?
For the reason that, just as you have given a thorough witness
about me in Jerusalem,
so you must also bear witness in your own.
Well, the clear reason that Jesus added to his comment,
no doubt encouraged Paul.
Now, in the other instances where Jesus said,
take courage, the word four is implied.
The monitor shows the reasons that Jesus added
in the other instances.
Matthew 9-2.
Take courage.
Why?
Your sins are forgiven.
Matthew 9-22.
Take courage. Why?
Your faith has made you well.
Matthew 14-27.
Take courage. Why?
It is I. Do not be afraid.
John 16-33.
Take courage. Why?
I have conquered the world.
Now, how can we imitate the pattern that Jesus said?
When encouraging others from the platform
or in a private conversation,
we tell them not only what to do,
but also why they should do so.
We try to persuade their mind
by giving reasons for their actions.
Now, what else do we see in the pattern that Jesus followed?
In encouraging others,
he tried not only to persuade the mind,
but also to move the heart.
We can see that in three of the examples we just considered.
As you see on the monitor, here is the example one.
Matthew 9-2.
Jesus did not just say, take courage,
but he said to the paralyzed man,
take courage, child.
What a touching way to address that paralyzed man.
He must have felt secure like a child in the arms of his father.
No doubt Jesus' words moved the man's heart.
Example 2.
Matthew 9-22.
Jesus did not just say, take courage,
but he said to the woman suffering from a flow of blood,
take courage, daughter.
How tenderly did Jesus treat the ailing woman by calling her daughter?
It was a word of affection that Jesus had never used before
when addressing a woman.
No doubt Jesus' words moved the woman's heart.
Example 3.
The last evening before Jesus' death,
he was together with his apostles in the upper room in Jerusalem.
Now let's imagine what happened shortly before Jesus told them, take courage.
After instituting the memorial,
Jesus looked around at his 11 faithful friends.
There they were.
Peter, Jesus couldn't help but love him so impulsive,
but so sincere.
There was James and a younger brother John,
one sense of thunder,
but how had they changed for the better?
Still zealous, but also compassionate.
And there was Andrew, one of the first disciples he talked to, still going strong.
As Jesus looked from face to face,
a feeling of deep affection must have felt up in him.
At that moment he felt so close to them that he was moved to address them in a way
he had never addressed them before.
He called them little children.
No doubt Jesus' words moved the heart of the apostles.
Shortly thereafter he told them, take courage.
Now what lesson do we learn from Jesus in these three examples?
As we tried to encourage others in the congregation at Bethel
or in other locations where we serve,
we want to convey to them our warm and sincere feelings of friendship.
We want to move their heart.
So what are the two main points of our brief discussion?
We have challenges, we have trials,
but because of having peace, we can be courageous.
And when encouraging others, we try to persuade their mind
and move their heart.
As we tell them, take courage, my friend, for Jehovah is our helper.